---
layout: post
title: "back to P19s"
category: labwork
tags: [update, P19s, differentiation, retinoic acid]
intent: restarting the time course of P19s, plus a general update
---
{% include JB/setup %}
##updates

I'm done with summer work, which in the end largely consisted of fighting with my computer. I set up my Div III writing workflow (zotero standalone + ClassicThesis LyxPort + PDF renaming scheme), got <i> this </i> site up and running, which took some serious effort, and read a lot of stuff. I also got back into the rhythm of molecular biology, picking up my project from where Garret had left off in the end of spring.
And now it's fall! I've passed Div II, which took up most of the first two weeks of school, have started my one class (Enzymes, with Rayane) and am TA'ing (i.e. Technical Assistant) the Advanced Methods in Molecular biology crop. The goal is for them to have an open lab notebook as well, although we're running on Wordpress instead of my jekyll/github hybrid. And now am ready to work hard(er) and gun through this project by December.

So what's the agenda for the next month?

 1. get a time course of RNA levels in P19s during differentiation with RA
   * I was unsuccessful at maintaining an every-three-days extraction scheduleg during the summer, so today we're starting over with Day 0 and new cells
 2. Turn the Mash1 gene into a properly oriented vector so that I can transfect cells with it
   * currently, it needs to be religated and then tested (again) for orientation. If it's wrong, rinse and repeat. If it's in the right way, grow it up and store for transfection

##intention

 1. Make retinoic acid for differentation; last batch was left out in the incubator for 3 days and is likely no longer active
 2. start differentiating P19s from stock cells Maura already split

##protocol

###retinoic acid 

Combine 27 mg of RA with 10 mls 95% EtOH; made two aliquots
 * measure RA powder directly into tube next time; otherwise measurments will be way off

####P19s

 1. Switch media to 1% FBS & add 1 mM RA (4 dishes); run a trizol extraction on one dish

##results &/or notes

Excited to be back and not a summer research worker anymore, but feeling generally very stressed about the shape of my Div III. RNA extractions will have to rely heavily on other people, since I'm going away for this weekend and again the next week (9/26-10/4), so we'll see.
